= Next Action =

Next Action is a [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/GettingThingsDone Getting Things Done] todo-list tracking tool. It's a personal database for your GTD info.

== Features Include: ==
 * Free and Open Source.
 * Fast and snappy.
 * Easy to use.
 * It runs on your computer, so you can use it when you're not connected online.

== Get started: ==
You can see and get Next Action at: http://trimpath.com/demos/nextaction_static1/nextaction.htm

Next, to get your own copy, just save Next Action to your computer (use the 'File -> Save Page As...' command in your browser).  Please, please use Firefox!  If you're into time-saving productivity tools like Getting Things Done, you know you should be using Firefox already.  Be sure to use 'Save as type:' of 'Web Page, complete', which will actually save an .htm file and a directory of any associated files (stylesheets, javascripts, etc).

Open up your newly saved, local .htm file into your browser. Now you're working with a local app and local data.

You can create your own actions from the Actions page.

When editing or creating an Action, you can optionally associate a Context and/or a Project to each Action.  
 * An Action is a small task, like 2 to 5 minutes.  
 * A Context is a place or environment which has tools which you need in order to get your Actions done, such as at your office or at your computer.  
 * A Project let's you group many related Actions together to accomplish a big task or goal.

You can use the Dashboard page to get a concise overview of your remaining actions.

The Dashboard page is also great for printing out as an action cheatsheet for when you're on the go. You can also output easily to your [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/HipsterTabletPc Hipster Tablet PC]

Don't forget to save your work early and often by using 'File -> Save Page As...'. The Next Action tool doesn't (yet) save changes to disk automatically.

Also, if you want to start from a clean database, go to the 'about' page, which has a Delete All Records button.

== Software Required: ==
Firefox 1.0+. This beta version will somewhat run in the IE 6.0+, too, but it's best right now just doing view or read-only operations. Opera and Safari is not supported (yet).

== What is 'show me the code'? ==
Next Action is a [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/SinglePageApplicationAndDevelopmentEnvironment SPADE] application, meaning it is a single page application that includes a built-in development environment. So, you can customize and tailor Next Action to your exact needs, without needing any other software.

If you know Ruby On Rails, you should be right at home with the [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimJunction Junction MVC framework] that was used to build Next Action. It's also a frictionless way to get familiar with Rails-like concepts, without having to learn Ruby.

== Arrgh, I keep hitting the Back button! ==
(...and losing my changes!)

One answer: just pop open your local Next Action file in a brand new tab every morning.  The result is that your Back and Forward commands will remain disabled.  Accidentally trying to go Back/Forward on that tab will have no effect.

By the way, you can also setup Firefox to [http://www.lifehacker.com/software/productivity/how-to-set-up-multiple-homepages-in-firefox-104939.php pop open multiple tabs on startup], so your mornings can be even faster.

== How To I Upgrade? ==
This [http://trimpath.com/forum/viewtopic.php?id=8 page] describes how to upgrade to the latest version of Next Action.

== Feedback? Suggestions? Ideas? ==
Try the [http://trimpath.com/forum Forum].  Or the wiki [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/NextActionDiscussion page].

== Mentions ==
 * "This has to be one of the coolest applications I've ever seen." - Asa Dotzler
   * http://weblogs.mozillazine.org/asa/archives/008473.html
 * "Incredible Javascript-driven GTD app" - neilio
   * http://groups-beta.google.com/group/43Folders/browse_thread/thread/837efcc34a270a3f
 * On 43 Folders...
   * http://www.43folders.com/2005/07/nextaction_gtd_.html
 * On lifehack.org...
   * http://www.lifehack.org/articles/lifehack/next-action-a-web-based-getting-things-done-todo-list.html
 * "Next Action is brilliant!"
   * http://trimpath.com/forum/viewtopic.php?id=30 
 * From delicious... 
   * "This web application functions completely from the browser and thus can be locally saved. Amazing!"
   * "Wonderful JavaScript-powered GTD tool"
   * "like tiddlywiki but different"
 * Doh!...
   * "Hmm.... I don't get it."
   * "Don't you know IE has 95% browser share?!"
   * "Nope, never heard of 'Gettings Things Done'"