= Single Page Application =

A '''SPA''' is a web application that fits on a single page, and which might be optionally enhanced by connectivity with a server.

----

Some recent examples of SPA include the "Wiki On A Stick" or "Wiki On A Flash Drive" apps:
  * [http://www.tiddlywiki.com TiddlyWiki]
  * [http://shared.snapgrid.com/gtd_tiddlywiki.html GTDTiddlyWiki], an adaptation of an older version of TiddlyWiki
  * [http://www.kevembuangga.com/hwk HailiWiki]
The key property of these Wiki On A Stick web applications is that you can do a "File->Save Page" in your browser and get your own personal wiki.  All the wiki pages and data then lives on your own local storage and is private to you.
  * !TiwyWiki (take it with you wiki)

Although these personal wiki's are interesting and have a chance at replacing your todo.txt file, I think they are only a hint at the applications that are possible in the SPA paradigm.  

TrimJunction aims for this future by adding Model-View-Controller and SQL programming concepts to the SPA party, with all the amenities that we've come to expect from open-source and view-source hospitality.

== Known SPA Applications ==
  * [wiki:NextAction Next Action]
  * [http://www.tiddlywiki.com TiddlyWiki]
  * [http://shared.snapgrid.com/gtd_tiddlywiki.html GTDTiddlyWiki] 
  * [http://www.kevembuangga.com/hwk HailiWiki]
  * [http://reblg.com/hrouter hRouter for Reblg]
  * [http://www.formassembly.com/time-tracker/ Time-Tracker - A Time Management Application]
  * [http://www.netvibes.com/ NetVibes - Ajax'ed start page]
  * [http://www.protopage.com/ Protopage - Ajax'ed start page]
  * [http://www.mah-jongg.ch Solitaire Mahjongg], a web game application coded in dynamic HTML
  * [http://www.meebo.com/ meebo], Browser-IM (AIM/ICQ, Yahoo!, MSN, Jabber/Google Talk)
  * [http://www.servicios-dpi.com/fun/bibliamutante.htm Mutant Bible] : mutant text that change as you read (spanish lang)
  * [http://www.servicios-dpi.com/fun/multiplex.htm Multiplexer] : javascript web spider that collect Avatar images from forum boards
  * [http://www.servicios-dpi.com/fun/rxe3.htm RXE3] : [http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usuario:Tei tei] version of the [http://ted.mielczarek.org/code/mozilla/xuledit/index.html Realtime Xul Editor]
  * [http://bagheera.50webs.com/match.html Monkey Match], a single page memory game using greasemonkey and Amazon web services.
  * [http://angel.net/~nic/passwd.html], a SPA for generating strong passwords for web signon's by generating a MD5 hash of the website domain with a master password.  This is compatible with the greasemonkey password composer script.
  * Know of any others?  Please add them here.

== Toolkits for SPA Applications ==
  * [http://rialto.application-servers.com Rialto] Rich Internet Application Toolkit ([http://rialto.application-servers.com/demoRialto.jsp demo])


----
See also: [wiki:SinglePageApplicationAndDevelopmentEnvironment Spade]





















