#summary Server-side helper to echo back dataset in CSV (and various) formats

= Introduction =

data:uri is not fully supported in browsers.  Were it supported the same code would work on IE as it does on Firefox,  and you could have full control over the filename (if it is a CSV export you are doing).  From the examples you can find,  mostly on the ExtJS forums,  the code you have to add is complex and doesn't do what you need it to do.

Therefore,  small server-side echo functions are required to help your AJAX page to do CSV export download files (not to mention PDF or Word or other formats for whatever data the user filters on the ajax page).

The purpose is to do all the real work on the browser,  and only echo the dataset in various formats from the server (do not duplicate so much data query facilities on the server,  duplicating what is done with Trimpath Query,  for example).


= Details =

To begin with the problem is partitioned into two parts,  one where the customer wishes to download the entire database,  this is a standard fixed call to a server-side getAll function (not through the echo mechanism).

The second part is the echo part,  a different link to download the search results that are sitting in a result set from a trimpath query.

== Part 1:  User wants entire thing. == 
Bypass echo with standard server get CSV file.  I include this here just for a complete context, which might be useful to some people.  It's a Spring Portlet controller method.  Java, yes,  sorry, I can't help it,  gotta eat.  The domain is Records Management -- the lifeblood of any organization.
{{{
	/**
	 * Retrieve entire Record Retention Schedules and return in CSV rather than JSON.
	 */
	@RequestMapping(params = "do=retrieveRecRetSchedDataCSV")
	public void retrieveRecRetSchedDataCSV(ResourceRequest request, ResourceResponse response) {

		String dataSetName = "RecordRetentionSchedules";
		String filename = dataSetName+".csv";
		String output = "\"test,  ok\", \"test\"";

		RecRetSchedSettings settings = loadSettings();

		RecRetSchedData data = new RecRetSchedData();

	    retrieveRecRetSchedItems( data, null );
	    
		String newListingData = 	    		  
			"SCHEDULE ID,"+
			"COST_CENTER_CODE," +
			"DEPT_CODE,"+
			"DEPT_NAME,"+
			"DEPT_OAS_FLAG,"+
			"DEPT_LOCN_ID,"+
			"DEPT_ACTIVE_FLAG,"+
			"RECORD_CODE,"+
			"RECORD_TITLE,"+
			"RECORD_DESCR,"+
			"DEPT_RETENTION_DESCR,"+
			"TOTAL_RETENTION_DESCR,"+
			"EVENT_BASED_FLAG,"+  
			"DEPT_RETENTION_QTY,"+
			"TOTAL_RETENTION_QTY,"+
			"DEPT_RETENTION_UNIT,"+
			"TOTAL_RETENTION_UNIT,"+
			"OAS_FLAG,"+
			"GENERAL_FLAG,"+
			"ACTIVE_FLAG\n";
		
		int rowCounter = 0;
		RecordCode currentSchedItem = null;
		
	    try {

			for( RecordCode schedItem : data.recRetSchedItems ){
	    		  			  
			  if ( rowCounter++ > 0 ) { newListingData += "\n"; }
			  
			  currentSchedItem = schedItem;

			  Department blankDept = new Department();
			  blankDept.setDeptName("");
			  blankDept.setActiveFlag("");
			  blankDept.setCostcode("");
			  blankDept.setDeptCode("");
			  blankDept.setLocnIdDefault(new BigDecimal(0));
			  blankDept.setOasFlag("");
			  
			  newListingData +=  
				  schedItem.getId()+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getDept(), blankDept).getCostcode()+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getDept(), blankDept).getDeptCode()+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getDept(), blankDept).getDeptName().replace( "\"", "'").replace( "<", " sym-lt ").replace( ">", " sym-gt ").replace( "\n", " ").replace( ",", " ")+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getDept(), blankDept).getOasFlag()+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getDept(), blankDept).getLocnIdDefault()+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getDept(), blankDept).getActiveFlag()+", " +
				  schedItem.getRecordCode()+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getRecordTitle(),"").replace( "\"", "'").replace( "<", " sym-lt ").replace( ">", " sym-gt ").replace( "\n", " ").replace( ",", " ")+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getRecordDescr(),"").replace( "\"", "'").replace( "<", " sym-lt ").replace( ">", " sym-gt ").replace( "\n", " ").replace( ",", " ")+", " +		  
				  nv2(schedItem.getDeptRetentionDescr(),"").replace( "\"", "'").replace( "<", " sym-lt ").replace( ">", " sym-gt ").replace( "\n", " ").replace( ",", " ")+", " +
				  nv2(schedItem.getTotalRetentionDescr(),"").replace( "\"", "'").replace( "<", " sym-lt ").replace( ">", " sym-gt ").replace( "\n", " ").replace( ",", " ")+", " +
				  schedItem.getEventBasedFlag()+", " +		  
				  schedItem.getDeptRetentionQty()+", " +
				  schedItem.getTotalRetentionQty()+", " +
				  schedItem.getDeptRetentionUnit()+", " +
				  schedItem.getTotalRetentionUnit()+", " +
				  schedItem.getOasFlag()+", " +
				  schedItem.getGeneralFlag()+", " +
				  schedItem.getActiveFlag()+" ";
			  
			}
			
			
	    } catch (Exception e) {
			logger.error("RRS.retrieveRecRetSchedData(): failed to parse list at index "+rowCounter+" RecordCode: "+currentSchedItem+" Exception: "+e.toString());
	    }
	    
		newListingData += "\n";
		
		output = newListingData;
		
		response.setContentType("text/csv");
		Long size = null;
		if (size != null) {
			response.setProperty("Content-Disposition", "attachment; filename=" + filename + "; size=" + size);
		} else {
			response.setProperty("Content-Disposition", "attachment; filename=" + filename);
		}

		try {
			PrintWriter pw;
			pw = response.getWriter();
			if (output != null) {
				pw.print(output);
			} else {
				pw.print("output is null");
			}
			pw.flush();

		} catch (IOException e) {
			e.printStackTrace();
		}
    
	}
}}}

Nv2() for those of you still awake,  demonstrates 2005 Java skills (rather than 1999 Java skills),  through the use of Generics (yeah,  finally,  jeez):

{{{
	private <T> T nv2(T a, T b) {
		return (a == null)?b:a;
	}
}}}

End of partition 1,  thank god.

----

Now the interesting part.

== Part 2. Trimpath Ajax Echo Helper ==

In a Spring MVC controller context,  at the bottom of your view.jsp you have a launch pad:
{{{
<form name="ajax_echo_launcher" id="ajax_echo_launcher" action="${ajaxEchoServiceCSVURL}" method="post" style="display:none;"> 
<textarea name="ajax_echo_area" id="ajax_echo_area" rows="15" cols="80"></textarea>
</form>
}}}

The ajax_echo_area is populated with CSV content from a recent query:
{{{
	prepareAndSendEcho: function() {
		var the_col_names = [];
		for(var name in policy_viewer_records_columnDefs.recordcodes) {
			if(! (policy_viewer_records_columnDefs.recordcodes[name] instanceof Function)) {
				the_col_names.push(name);
			}
		}
		var echo_struct = { dataset_name: this.currentListingLabel, col_headers: the_col_names, data: this.currentListing };
		jQuery("#ajax_echo_area").html(YAHOO.lang.JSON.stringify(echo_struct));
		jQuery("#ajax_echo_launcher").get(0).submit();

	}
}}}

In the above,  this.currentListing is the return data from a recent trimpath query.  policy_viewer_records_columnDefs.recordcodes is the Trimpath Query schema from which I grab all column names for the header:
{{{
   var policy_viewer_records_columnDefs = {
		   recordcodes  : 
     	   { 
	         id          : { type: "String" },
	         cost_center_code     : { type: "String" },
	         dept_code     : { type: "String" },
	         dept_name:  { type: "String" },
	         dept_oas_flag          : { type: "String" },
	         dept_locn_id     : { type: "String" },
	         dept_active_flag          : { type: "String" },
	         record_code: { type: "String" },
	         record_title: { type: "String" },
	         record_descr: { type: "String" },
	         dept_retention_descr: { type: "String" },
	         total_retention_descr: { type: "String" },
             event_based_flag: { type: "String" },
             dept_retention_qty: { type: "String" },
             total_retention_qty: { type: "String" },
             dept_retention_unit: { type: "String" },
             total_retention_unit: { type: "String" },
             oas_flag: { type: "String" },
             general_flag: { type: "String" },
             active_flag: { type: "String" }
		  
            }
        };    
}}}

currentListingLabel is simply a string put together to be the filename,  which is just a representation of whatever optionVals and keywordVals the user was querying on:
{{{
		 this.currentListingLabel = "RecordRetentionSchedules"+optionVal+keywordsVal.replace(/[^a-zA-Z0-9]/g, '');
}}}
