= TrimSpreadsheet =
{ [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimSpreadsheet TrimSpreadsheet home] -- [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/downloads/list download] | [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimSpreadsheetDiscussion community] }

'''TrimSpreadsheet''' is a lightweight [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimPathLicense open-source] !JavaScript spreadsheet engine.  It let's you work with spreadsheet data right in your web browser.  As with all !TrimPath components, the '''TrimSpreadsheet''' engine is written as 100% standards-based !JavaScript and CSS.  Spreadsheets are stored as HTML <table> markup, so it's easy to understand and embed into your own web pages.  Merely assign a class of "spreadsheet" to your <table>, and the !TrimSpreadsheet engine will do the rest.  Anyone familiar with CSS can also easily create their own spreadsheet themes.

== Demos ==
Want to see !TrimSpreadsheet in action?  Here's some demos...
 * [http://trimpath.com/demos/test1/trimpath/spreadsheet_demo0.html software analysis spreadsheet].
 * [http://trimpath.com/demos/test1/trimpath/spreadsheet_demo1.html product comparison spreadsheet].
 * [http://trimpath.com/demos/test1/trimpath/spreadsheet_blank.html blank spreadsheet].
Note: these demos run the latest, most featureful development code.  Please see the [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/downloads/list download] page if you want a stable prior release.

== Features ==
 * Formulas.
   * SUM, COUNT, AVERAGE, MIN, MAX.
   * Math operators */+-, parenthesis.
   * Any !JavaScript expression.
 * Styling And Fonts.
   * CSS styling fully supported.
   * Bold, italic, underline, left/center/right, etc.
 * Recalculation Engine Features.
   * Automated recalculations (by default).
   * API-controllable recalculations, for firing off big recalculations just when you want.
   * Cycle detection, so no infinite loops during recalculation.
   * The recalculation engine is '''cooperative''', so you can optionally programmatically split a large recalculation into multiple phases.  If you expect users to have huge spreadsheets, this can help ensure that the engine does not lock up the browser UI.
   * The recalculation engine is a separate sub-component that can be used without the UI component.
 * Simple
   * !TrimSpreadsheet follows unobtrusive !JavaScript design principles, so a spreadsheet is as simple as an HTML <table>.
   * !TrimSpreadsheet markup is human readable, highly semantic and search indexer friendly.
   * The !TrimSpreadsheet engine is smaller than most Excel spreadsheets.
 * Hypertext Cell Contents.
   * HTML fragments are supported in your spreadsheet cells.
 * Cross-browser.
 * Configurable.
   * Scrollbars, row/column header bars, and formula controls are all controllable thru simple HTML markup.
 * Cool Only In A Browser
   * Only those who've programmed against DHTML/DOM would think this is neat, but regular spreadsheet users will yawn...
     * Header Row & Column Bars that (try) to stay put during scrolling.
     * Resizable Rows & Columns through mouse dragging.

== More information ==
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimSpreadsheetBasicPrimer A Basic Primer To Using TrimSpreadsheet]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/downloads/list TrimSpreadsheet Downloads]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimSpreadsheetDiscussion TrimSpreadsheet Community Wiki]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimSpreadsheetRunsIn TrimSpreadsheet Browser Compatibility]

----
{ [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimSpreadsheet TrimSpreadsheet home] -- [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/downloads/list download] | [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimSpreadsheetDiscussion community] }