= Junction =

The open source Junction framework is a conventions-over-configuration, synchronizing web MVC framework for JavaScript.

 * '''!TrimPath Junction''' is a clone or port of the terrific [http://www.rubyonrails.com/ Ruby on Rails] web MVC framework into !JavaScript.
 * '''!TrimPath Junction''' is also sometimes referred to as !TrimJunction, or as just Junction.

Show me code: here's a code snippet comparison between [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/RubyRailsVsJavaScriptJunction Ruby on Rails versus JavaScript on Junction].  

== More ==
 * *[http://trimpath.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/junction_docs/index.html documentation]*
 * *[http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/downloads/list download]*

== News ==
 * 2007/08/29 - Junction 1.1.16 and Next Action 0.92 released, with new modelInit() syntax for Model definitions, and bug fixes.
 * 2007/08/15 - Junction 1.1.14 released, with new TrimQuery improvements.  Also, Next Action 0.90 and Happy Birthday Alexander!
 * 2007/08/13 - Junction 1.1.12 and Next Action 0.88 released, with bug fixes and data export/import feature.
 * 2007/08/06 - Junction 1.1.10 released, which now runs on Linux.
 * 2007/08/04 - Junction 1.1.8 and Next Action 0.86 released, with big speed improvement.
 * 2007/07/30 - Junction 1.1.6 and Next Action 0.84 released.
 * 2007/07/12 - After two years, [http://trimpath.com/blog/?p=69 Junction and Next Action finally get updated].  Junction 1.1.2 and Next Action 0.80.
 * 2007/07/12 - New API docs online at http://trimpath.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/junction_docs/index.html
 * 2007/07/06 - [http://trimpath.com/blog/?p=53 Google Gears is the missing link to Junction]!
 * 2007/06/25 - Rails on JS forthcoming by Steve Yegge - http://www.iunknown.com/2007/06/steve-yegge-por.html
 * 2005/07/18 - New Release - 1.0.38
 * 2005/07/06 - A new demo app is available, called [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/NextAction Next Action]

== Vision ==

In a nutshell: mindlessly copy Rails when possible, because it's a great web MVC framework.  Next, riff on Rails to allow for doing cool, non-Rails maneuvers that are only possible with JavaScript.

The result should be a web MVC framework that runs in either the client AND the server.  While we're at it, explore and push the edges of occasionally connected web applications.

Long version:

With an eye towards [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/DontRepeatYourself Don't Repeat Yourself], spiced with a little Ajax, the grand vision of the !TrimPath Junction project is to be able to write web application logic just once, in familiar languages like !JavaScript.

A Junction-based web application should run, validate input, process data, generate output and do its thing on both the server AND the client.  We use the Rhino !JavaScript runtime for the server and use your favorite, modern web browser for the client.

If you know Rails, then Junction will be very familiar stuff.  Maybe you can help the Junction project to grow up.

If you know !JavaScript, then all the good things you've been hearing about Rails is now becoming available to you through the Junction project.  Except, you don't need to learn yet another programming language.

With Junction, you still need to know HTML/DHTML, DOM, CSS, and SQL.  You still need to know about HTTP, cookies, and sessions.  Junction doesn't hide these things from you and magically turn your web browser into the next Visual Basic IDE.  Junction believes in fealty to web standards.

But, you will probably need to learn about offline, occasionally connected databases and application design.  Junction deviates from its Rails roots in pushing on this feature area.  Think synchronization and poor (really destitute) man's Notes or Groove.  Junction aims to provide a web-standards-based reincarnation of Notes or Groove.  This is the key new area that Junction explores and aspires to push forward.

Junction, like Rails, also stays out of your way.  If you need to specify HTML down to the Nth degree, you can.  If you want to bring in more web GUI widgets (like from Dojo Toolkit or htmlArea or Flash or Prototype), you can.  Junction is a web Model-View-Controller (MVC) framework, not about hiding JavaScript or the DOM model.

== Model - View - Controller ==

Here's how the web MVC paradigm appears in Junction.

 * '''Model''' - in the Junction world, these are just a plain old !JavaScript 'classes'.  Actually, that means these are just plain old !JavaScript functions, and they follow the [http://www.martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/activeRecord.html Active Record pattern] of object-relational mapping.  Fancy queries are done using SQL, even when offline or disconnected from the server.  We use the TrimQuery project and Google Gears RDBMS to allow SQL to run in a (possibly disconnected) web browser data cache.
{{{
BlogPost = function() {}

modelInit('BlogPost');

BlogPost.hasMany('Comments);

BlogPost.findByShortName = function(shortName) {
    return BlogPost.find("first", { conditions: ["BlogPost.shortName = ?", shortName] });
}
}}}

 * '''View''' - these are [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/JavaScriptTemplates JavaScript Templates] (JST).  The JST engine is another project of the !TrimPath effort.  JST templates should be familiar to anyone who knows other HTML templating markup syntax, like PHP, !FreeMarker, Velocity, Smarty.
{{{
<div>
  Comments...
  <ul>
    {for comment in blogPost.getComments()}
      <li><span>${comment.author} says...</span>
          <div>${comment.body}</div></li>
    {/for}
  </ul>
</div>
}}}

   * Alternatively, if you like rhtml/ERb/JSP style syntax, Junction can also use EcmaScriptTemplates.  For example...
{{{
<div>
  Comments...
  <ul>
    <% for (var comments = blogPost.getComments(),
                i = 0; i < comments.length; i++) { %>
      <li><span><%= comments[i].author %> says...</span>
          <div><%= comments[i].body %></div></li>
    <% } %>
  </ul>
</div>
}}}

 * '''Controller''' - these are also just plain old !JavaScript functions.  Notice that Junction supports scaffolding, just like with Rails...
{{{
BlogPostController = function() {}

scaffold(BlogPostController, 'BlogPost')
}}}

It's all hooked together through [http://www.onlamp.com/pub/a/onlamp/2005/01/20/rails.html convention, not configuration].  That is, if you just follow the naming conventions, there are no configuration files.  The Junction framework favors reflection and late-bound dynamic object extensions.  The result is less code, no recompilation steps, and faster development.

== Links ==
 * [http://trimpath.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/junction_docs/index.html Junction Documentation]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimJunctionDemo Online Junction Demo]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimJunctionHowItWorks How Does Junction Work]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimJunctionFollowARequest Follow A Request Through Junction]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimJunctionController Junction Controller]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/PrototypingWithJunction Quick Application Prototyping Using Junction]

 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/SinglePageApplications Spa -- Single Page Applications]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/SinglePageApplicationAndDevelopmentEnvironment Spade -- Single Page Application and Development Environment]

 * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/downloads/list Download Junction] 
   * TrimPath Components Used In Junction
     * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/JavaScriptTemplates TrimPath JavaScript Templates]
     * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimQuery TrimPath TrimQuery]
     * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimBreakpoint TrimPath Breakpoint]
   * Other Requirements
     * [http://prototype.conio.net Prototype] 

 * External Resources
   * [http://www.rubyonrails.com/ Ruby on Rails]
     * Learning Ruby and Rails is a good thing, whether or not you dig Junction or not.  Rails and Ruby are very interesting technologies that show off the power of dynamic languages. Plus, since Junction suffers from a newborn project's lack of documentation, the best way to understand Junction right now is to know a little bit of its parent, Rails.
     * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/RubyRailsVsJavaScriptJunction Ruby on Rails versus JavaScript on Junction] code comparison.
   * Solving The Back Button
     * [http://dojotoolkit.org Dojo Toolkit] 
     * [http://www.contentwithstyle.co.uk/Articles/38/fixing-the-back-button-and-enabling-bookmarking-for-ajax-apps Back Button Article]
   * [http://prototype.conio.net Prototype] 
     * Junction uses the Prototype library from Sam Stephenson for Ajax and DOM animation effects.
   * [http://groove.net Groove Networks]
   * [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/JsonLibrary JSON]

----
{ [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/wiki/TrimJunction Junction home] | [http://trimpath.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/junction_docs/index.html documentation] | [http://code.google.com/p/trimpath/downloads/list download] }